.TH TUNBLKCTL 1 "November 2023" "tunblkctl v0.3.0.alpha" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
tunblkctl \- command-line frontend for Tunnelblick.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tunblkctl
<COMMAND> [OPTIONS...] [ARGS...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tunblkctl
is a command-line interface that facilitates the execution of common VPN
management operations for Tunnelblick. This tool is particularly useful
for scripting, automation of testing scenarios, or any situation where a
command-line interface is preferable or required.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list
Enumerates installed VPN configurations. Formats names in columns when
output is a tty; otherwise, it uses a line-per-config approach.
.TP
.B status [--strip|--no-strip]
Displays a table with VPN configurations, their statuses, and traffic
statistics. Depending on the output destination (tty or not) formats
table or skips formatting, which can be also controlled by the options
above.
.TP
.B connect [--wait] <VPN>
Establishes a new VPN connection. The
.B --wait
option blocks command completion until the connection is up (or down).
.TP
.B disconnect [VPN]
Shuts down VPN connection. If no VPN is specified, all the established
connections are subject to shut down.
.TP
.B quit
Forces Tunnelblick to shut down all active VPN connections and then quit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TUNBLKCTL_DIVIDER
By default, formatted traffic statistics is printed using powers of 2
(kibi-, mebi-, ...). To use powers of 10 (kilo-, mega-) this variable
should be set to 1000.
.TP
.B TUNBLKCTL_DEBUG
Set to "on" to enable verbose output from the internals of
.BR tunblkctl .
.TP
.B TUNBLKCTL_EXT
Set to "on" to enable additional column AUTOCONNECT in status reports.
.SH AUTHOR
Andrey Zhuchkov
.SH VERSION
0.3.0.alpha
.SH BUGS
This version should be considered as an early preview, and so unstable
(including API).

